---
layout: post
title: Binomial Distribution
---

Suppose now we conduct a medical test on 10 mice independently, and there is a probability of $p=0.8$ that each mouse would survive the test. Then what is the probability of 6 mice still alive?

In this problem, we notice that there are 3 characteristics for the experiments:

* The number of tests is fixed, i.e. 10 in total.
* These 10 tests are independent, i.e. whether the second mouse would survive is not affected by the consequence of the first test.
* In each test, there are only 2 outcomes, i.e. the mice dies or survives.

These conditions are always satisfied in a commonly-used statistical distribution, called Binomial distribution. In general, it contains 2 parameters, one is the total number of trials we have, noted as *n*, and the other one is the fixed probabilty of the occurrence of success, noted as *p*. Obviously, in the above question, $n=10$ and $p=0.8$.

Now let's consider about some counterexamples:

1. Suppose the tests will only be stopped until 6 mice survive, then the total number of tests is a random variable now and it is not fixed anymore.
2. Suppose we continue to use a mouse if it survives the previous test, then these tests will not be independent anymore since the next test might be affected.
3. Suppose one of the mice gets mental disorders after the test, then the third condiiton is violated.

According to the [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binomial_distribution):
> If the random variable X follows the binomial distribution with parameters n and p, we write X ~ Bin(n, p). The probability of getting exactly k successes in n trials is given by the probability mass function:
> $$ Pr(k;n,p) = Pr(X=k) = {n\choose k}p^{k} (1-p)^{n-k}$$

It is easy to understand the formula using some basic probability knowledge. In each trial, the probabilty of success is *p* and all the *n* trials are independent. Therefore, the probability that the first *k* trials succeed is: $$p^{k}$$

If we continue to perform the trials until we complete the total *n* trials, there would be another *(n-k)* trials. And the probablity that these trials fail is: $$(1-p)^{n-k}$$

Again, because of the independence, the probability that *k* successes are followed by *(n-k)* trials is the product of the above two: $$p^{k}(1-p)^{n-k}$$

However, this is just one way to get *k* successes from *n* trials. For example, We can also assume that the first *(n-k)* trials fail and the last *k* trials succeed. So there would be $\frac {n!}{k!(n-k)!}$ permutations in total, where "!" represents the factorial of the preceding number. And this fraction is called the binomial coefficient.

Finally, the probability that the number of successes *X* is exact *k* is to multiply the total number of possible ways in getting *k* successes from *n* trials by the probability of one way. So the complete formula should be: 
$$ Pr(k;n,p) = Pr(X=k) = {n\choose k}p^{k} (1-p)^{n-k}$$
for all integer values from 0 to *n*.

Applying this into our problem, the probabilty of 6 successes in 10 trials, i.e. 6 mice surviving the tests, should be:
$$ Pr(6;n,p) = {10\choose 6}0.8^{6} (1-0.8)^{10-6} = 0.088$$